*Requirements*

1. Install NodeJs - Node.js is essential for running JavaScript code outside the browser and is needed for backend development.

Reference - https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager
Steps:
    (a) Visit the Node.js download page and choose the appropriate version for your operating system.  
    (b) After installation, verify it by running the following command in a terminal:
      node -v
      npm -v

2. Install Ganache - Ganache is a personal blockchain used to run Ethereum tests and deploy smart contracts.

Reference: https://archive.trufflesuite.com/ganache/
Steps:
    (a) Download the Ganache application for your operating system.
    (b) Install and launch it.

3. Download IPFS (kubo) - IPFS (InterPlanetary File System) is required for decentralized file storage.

Reference: https://dist.ipfs.tech/#go-ipfs
Steps:
    (a) Download the go-ipfs version suitable for your OS.
    (b) Follow the installation guide provided on the IPFS website.

4. Add Metamask Extension in Browser - Metamask is a crypto wallet and gateway to Ethereum blockchain apps.

Reference: https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/metamask/nkbihfbeogaeaoehlefnkodbefgpgknn?hl=en-US
Steps:
    (a) Open the link above and add the Metamask extension to your browser.
    (b) Set up your Metamask wallet (create or import an existing one).

5. Install Project Dependencies - After setting up the project environment, you need to install the required Node.js dependencies.

Steps:
    (a) Open cmd (Command Prompt) in the project directory where the code is located.
    (b) If you have cloned the project, navigate to the directory:
      cd path/to/your/MediChain
    (c) Install the necessary dependencies by running the following command:
      npm install --force

6. Install Truffle Globally - Truffle is a development environment and testing framework for Ethereum smart contracts.

Steps:
    (a) Open cmd or terminal as Administrator.
    (b) Install Truffle globally using the following command:
      npm install -g truffle

7. Setup Ganache Workspace - Ganache will be used to deploy and test smart contracts locally.

Steps:
    (a) Open Ganache.
    (b) Click on "New Workspace".
    (c) Select "Add Project".
    (d) Navigate to your project directory and select the truffle-config.js file.
    (e) Save the workspace.

8. Compile and Migrate Contracts - Compile the smart contracts in your project and deploy them on your local blockchain (Ganache).

Steps:
    (a) Open a terminal and navigate to your project directory.
    (b) Compile and migrate the contracts using Truffle:
      truffle migrate

9. Run the Server - Once all contracts have been migrated, you can run the Node.js server to start the project.

Steps:
    (a) In the project directory, run the following command:
      npm start

This will start the server and open the MediChain application in your browser.
